# Release notes

KeyboardKit tries to honor semantic versioning:

* Only remove deprecated code in `major` versions.
* Only deprecate code in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Avoid breaking changes in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Code can be marked as deprecated at any time.

Breaking changes can still occur in minor versions and patches, though, if the alternative is to not be able to release new critical features or fixes.



## 0.8

`Keyboard` has been given an optional ID, which can be used to uniquely identify a keyboard. This makes it easier to manage multiple keyboards in an app.

`KeyboardInputViewController` implements the `KeyboardPresenter` protocol, which means that you can set the new optional `id` property to make a `KeyboardSetting` exclusive to that presenter. This is nice if your app has multiple keyboards. If you do not specify an id, the settings behave just like before.

A PR by [micazeve](https://github.com/micazeve) is merged. It limits the current page index that is persisted for a keyboard, to avoid bugs if the page count has changed since persisting the value.



## 0.7.1

This version updates KeyboardKit to `Swift 4.2` and makes it ready for Xcode 10.



## 0.7

The grid keyboard view controller uses a new way to calculate the available item space and item size for a certain number of rows and buttons per row. This means that we can now use top and bottom content insets to create vertical margins for grid-based keyboards.



## 0.6.2

I previously used the async image functions to quickly setup a lot of images for "emoji" keyboards. Since I didn't use a collection view for emoji keyboards then, all image views were created at the same time, which caused rendering delays. By using the async image approach, image loading was moved from the main thread and allowed individual images to appear when they were loaded instead of waiting for all images to load before any image could be displayed.

However, `KeyboardKit` now has collection view-based keyboards, which are better suited for the task above, since they only render the cells they need. This will solve the image loading issues, which means that the async image extensions will no longer be needed. I have therefore removed `UIImage+Async` and the `Threading` folder from the library, to keep it as small as possible.



## 0.6.1

No functional changes, just README updates and improvements. The version bump is required to give CocoaPod users the latest docs.



## 0.6

This is a complete rewrite of the entire library. KeyboardKit now targets iOS 11 and the code has been improved a lot. Check out the demo app to see how to setup keyboards from now on.


Older release notes are not available
