# Release notes

KeyboardKit tries to honor semantic versioning:

* Only remove deprecated code in `major` versions.
* Only deprecate code in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Avoid breaking changes in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Code can be marked as deprecated at any time.

Breaking changes can still occur in minor versions and patches, though, if the alternative is to not be able to release new critical features or fixes.



## 3.6.3

This release adds fake protocol implementations, to simplify creating SwiftUI previews.

The release also adds some things for the future:

* `KeyboardButtonWidth` is a new way to express the width of a keyboard button.
* `View+KeyboardButtonWidth` is a new way to apply a width to a keyboard button.

Although not used by the standard keyboards yet, I still wanted to add them before starting working on 4.0.



## 3.6.2

This release rolls back some changes to try improve dark appearance keyboards in SwiftUI. 

Seems like dark appearance can't be detected, since this also enables dark mode. Hopefully this is easier to fix in KK 4.0.



## 3.6.1

This release adds a time threshold to the end sentence action.

This release also fixes so that `CalloutCurve` and `CustomRoundedRect` handles invalid rects.



## 3.6

This release fixes so that the secondary input gesture triggers a tap if there were no secondary actions in the callout.

### New features

* `Emoji` is a new struct that in the future will let us work more with emojis in a more structured and type-safe way.
* `EmojiCategory` now lets you register a `frequentEmojiProvider`, and uses that to populate the frequent category.
* There is a new `EmojiProvider` protocol
* There is a new `FrequentEmojiProvider` protocol
* There is a new `MostRecentEmojiProvider` class
* There is a new `String+Delimiters` extension with word and sentence delimiters.
* There are new `UITextDocumentProxu+Content` extensions to get previous sentences and words.

* `AutocompleteToolbar` has a new, static  `standardReplacement` function.
* `AutocompleteToolbar` has a new, static  `standardReplacementAction` function.
* `AutocompleteToolbar` now lets you provide an optional, custom  `replacementAction` in init.
* `Color+Resources` is a new extension that provides asset-based colors that adapt to dark mode.
* `EmojiCategoryKeyboard` is a new view that lists the emojis of a selected category and a menu.
* `EmojiCategoryKeyboardMenu` is a new view that lets the user select one of multiple categories.
* `EmojiKeyboard` is a new view that renders a set of emojis in a lazy grid. The item action is customizable.

### Behavior changes

* `EmojiCategory` now implements `EmojiProvider`
* `EmojiCategory.frequent` now returns emojis from the `frequentEmojiProvider`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now tries to register emojis with the `EmojiCategory` frequent emoji provider.

* `Color+Button` uses the new asset-based colors.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonBody` now only offsets small caps texts.
* The emoji action has a filled standard image instead of an outlined one.
* Due to a secondary callout action bug, the secondary context is now created by the vc.

### Bug fixes

* The `´` accent was accidentally used in standard numeric keyboards. It has now been replaced with `’`, which is the correct one.

### Deprecations

* `KeyboardContext.emojiCategory` has been deprecated. This should be persisted by the view instead.
* `PhotosImageService` and the standard implementation has been deprecated. Copy it to your own project if you want to keep on using it.
* `UIImage+Photos` has been deprecated. Copy it to your own project if you want to keep on using it.

* Some button-specific `Color` extensions have been deprecated.
* `View+keyboardAction(:context:)` has been deprecated. 

### Breaking changes

* `secondaryCalloutInputProvider` has been removed from `KeyboardContext`. It's now only in the secondary context.



## 3.5.2

This release fixes so that the secondary input gesture triggers a tap if there were no secondary actions in the callout.

The release also makes the entire autocomplete button tappable, instead of just the text.



## 3.5.1

This release fixes so that upper-cased chars gets secondary callout actions and that the input callout isn't dismissed if there are no secondary actions.  



## 3.5

This release makes it easier to inject custom views into the `SwiftUI`-based `SystemKeyboard` and `AutocompleteToolbar`. 

There is also a new `SystemKeyboardSpaceButton` which lets you present the current locale before fading to "space".

The release also adds a spacebar drag gesture and deprecates some `haptic` properties as well as some `system` properties in favor of the `standard` naming concept (since the system behavior *is* the standard behavior).

### New features
 
* `AutocompleteSuggestion` is a new protocol that makes the autocomplete provider concept more general.
* `HapticFeedback` has a new `longPressOnSpace` case.
* `KeyboardAppearanceProvider` is a protocol for providing button content and style.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new `keyboardAppearanceProvider` property.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has new functionality for handling the space drag gesture.
* `StandardKeyboardAppearanceProvider` is a standard appearance provider that returns standard values.

* `SystemKeyboardButtonContent` is new view that extracts content logic from `SystemKeyboardButton`.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonRowItem` can now be created with generic views. 
* `SystemKeyboardSpaceButton` is new view that wraps `SystemKeyboardSpaceButtonContent` and applied a style and gestures to it.
* `SystemKeyboardSpaceButtonContent` is new view that animates between a locale text and a space text.

### Behavior changes

* `HapticFeedback.standard` has almost no haptic feedback now, since that *is* the standard behavior. 
* `SystemKeyboard` now wraps the `buttonBuilder` generated views in a `SystemKeyboardButtonRowItem`.
* `SystemKeyboardButton` now applies a fallback text from the new appearance provider.
* The standard `SystemKeyboard` button builder generates `SystemKeyboardButtonContent` instead of `SystemKeyboardButton`.

### Deprecations

* `HapticFeedback` standard cases have been deprecated, since native keyboards have almost no haptic feedback.
* `KeyboardAction` `systemFont` is renamed to `standardButtonFont`.
* `KeyboardAction` `systemKeyboardButtonText` is renamed to `standardButtonText`.
* `KeyboardAction` `systemTextStyle` is renamed to `standardButtonTextStyle`.
* `KeyboardType` `systemKeyboardButtonText` is deprecated.
* `String` implements `AutocompleteSuggestion` to avoid breaking changes in KK 3.5+. You should provide your own custom types, though.

* `Color` `systemKeyboardButtonBackgroundColorDark` has been renamed to `standardDarkButtonBackgroundColor` 
* `Color` `systemKeyboardButtonBackgroundColorLight` has been renamed to `standardLightButtonBackgroundColor` 
* `Color` `systemKeyboardButtonForegroundColor` has been renamed to `standardButtonForegroundColor` 
* `Color` `systemKeyboardButtonShadowColor` has been renamed to `standardButtonShadowColor`
* `KeyboardAction` `systemKeyboardButtonBackgroundColor` has been renamed to `standardButtonBackgroundColor` 
* `KeyboardAction` `systemKeyboardButtonImage` has been renamed to `standardButtonImage` 
* `KeyboardAction` `systemKeyboardButtonShadowColor` has been renamed to `standardButtonShadowColor`
* `KeyboardCasing` `systemImage` has been renamed to `standardButtonImage`
* `KeyboardCasing` `systemKeyboardButtonImage` was unused and has been deprecated.
* `KeyboardType` `systemKeyboardButtonImage` has been renamed to `standardButtonImage`
* `View` `systemKeyboardButtonStyle` has been renamed to `standardButtonStyle`
* `View` `systemKeyboardButtonBackground` has been renamed to `standardButtonBackground`
* `View` `systemKeyboardButtonFont` has been renamed to `standardButtonFont`
* `View` `systemKeyboardButtonForeground` has been renamed to `standardButtonForeground`
* `View` `systemKeyboardButtonShadow` has been renamed to `standardButtonShadow`

### Breaking changes

* `AutocompleteToolbarView` and `AutocompleteToolbar` now use `AutocompleteSuggestion` instead of `String`. It makes them MUCH more powerful, so I hope this breaking change is acceptable.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonRowItem` has been made generic.
* `SystemKeyboard.ButtonBuilder` now returns an `AnyView` since you may want to use any custom view for any button.


## 3.4.2

This release adds curves and behavior changes to the callout bubbles.

### Behavior changes

* The disabled secondary % callout actions have been re-enabled.
* `CalloutStyle` now applies button frame insets when configured for a system keyboard.
* `InputCallout` has curves between the button area and the callout.
* `InputCalloutContext` has a new `isEnabled` property that is only true for phones, since it should not be displayed on iPads.
* `InputCalloutContext` no longer insets the button rect.
* `SecondaryInputCallout` has curves between the button area and the callout and the design is improved.
* `SystemInputCalloutContext` no longer insets the button rect.

### New features

* `CalloutCurve` is a new shape that can be used to smoothen the two parts of a callout bubble.



## 3.4.1

This release fixes some visual artefacts in the callout bubbles.



## 3.4

From now on, release notes will include changes in both KeyboardKit and KeyboardKitSwiftUI.

This release adds support for input callouts and secondary input callouts.

### New features

This release has new features for secondary callout actions.

* `KeyboardAction+SecondaryCalloutActions` specifies standard, locale-specific secondary callout actions for keyboard actions.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new `secondaryCalloutActionProvider` property.
* `SecondaryCalloutActionProvider` is a protocol for providing secondary callout actions for keyboard actions.
* `StandardSecondaryCalloutActionProvider` is a standard action provider that returns the standard secondary callout actions.

* `CalloutStyle` is a shared style for keyboard button callout.
* `InputCallout` is a callout that can highlight the currently pressed keyboard button.
* `InputCalloutContext` can be used to control `InputCallout` views.
* `InputCalloutStyle` can be used to style `InputCallout` views.
* `SecondaryInputCallout` is a callout that can present secondary actions for the currently pressed keyboard button.
* `SecondaryInputCalloutContext` can be used to control `SecondaryInputCallout` views.
* `SecondaryInputCalloutStyle` can be used to style `SecondaryInputCallout` views.
* `View+InputCallout` can be used to wrap any view in a `ZStack` with a topmost `InputCallout`
* `View+SecondaryInputCallout` can be used to wrap any view in a `ZStack` with a topmost `SecondaryInputCallout`


### Behavior changes

Since the new secondary input callout, which triggers on long press, I have removed the standard long press action for all actions except backspace. 

This also makes standard KeyboardKit keyboards behave more like native iOS keyboards.

* `View+KeyboardGestures` has been extended with gestures for `InputCallout` and `SecondaryInputCallout`.

### Breaking changes

This release also has breaking changes to experimental features.

* `KeyboardInputProvider` has been renamed to `KeyboardInputSetProvider`
* `KeyboardInputSetProvider`s properties are now context-based functions
* `KeyboardContext` `keyboardInputProvider` has been renamed to `keyboardInputSetProvider`
* `ObservableKeyboardContext` `keyboardInputProvider` has been renamed to `keyboardInputSetProvider`



## 3.3

This release contains a bunch of new features that makes the keyboard behave more like the native keyboards when typing, for instance auto-capitalization and auto-lowercasing.

### Keyboard behavior

This release separates action handling from behavior, which I hope makes the code cleaner and easier to test and simplifies reusing behavior outside of an action handling context. 

* `KeyboardBehavior` specifies how a keyboard should behave.
* `StandardKeyboardBehavior` specifies the standard behavior of a western keyboard.

You can create your own behaviors as well as subclass and override parts of the standard behavior.

Note that this is an experimental feature that may have to be revisited before 4.0.

### New features

* `KeyboardContext` has a new `preferredKeyboardType` property.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new `actionBehavior` property.
* `StandardKeyboardBehavior` has caps-lock double tap logic.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `isCursorAtNewSentence` property.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `isCursorAtNewWord` property.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `endSentence` function that removes any space before the cursor, then closes the sentence.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `sentenceDelimiters` property.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `wordDelimiters` property.

### Behavior changes

* The caps-lock double tap logic is moved from double-tap on shift to the new keyboard behavior.
* The sentence ending logic is moved from double-tap on space to the new keyboard behavior.
* The sentence ending logic is no longer based on double-tap, which makes it easier to use.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardDoubleTapAction` is not defined for any actions anymore.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `changeKeyboardType` has no time interval anymore.
* `StandardKeyboardContext` initializer now has a default value for the keyboard type.

### Bug fixes

* The standard keyboard layout has been fixed to use the correct caps-lock button image.

### Deprecations

* `KeyboardAction` `endSentenceAction` has been moved to `UITextDocumentProxy+EndSentence`.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardDoubleTapAction` is not used internally anymore.
* `KeyboardContext` `changeKeyboardType` is not used internally anymore.
* `KeyboardType` `canBeReplaced` is not used internally anymore.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `handleKeyboardSwitch` is renamed to `handleKeyboardTypeChange`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `preferredKeyboardType` has been moved to the keyboard behavior.

These deprecations will be removed in v 4.0.



## 3.2

This release contains improvements to the input set logic:

* There is a new `KeyboardInputProvider` protocol.
* `StandardKeyboardInputProvider` tries to use the current locale (fallback to English) and can be inherited.
* `StaticKeyboardInputProvider` uses three static input sets. 
* `InputSet+English` has been renamed to `InputSet+Locale` and has more sets.
* `InputSet+Locale` extension has support for basic English, German, Italian and Swedish.
* `StandardKeyboardInputProvider` is used by default in the context, but you can change this at anytime.

The release also introduces a new "keyboard layout" concept, where a keyboard layout is an input set with surrounding actions:

* There is a new `KeyboardLayout` struct.
* There is a new `KeyboardLayoutProvider` protocol.
    * `StandardKeyboardLayoutProvider` uses the current context and can be inherited.
    * `StaticKeyboardLayoutProvider` uses a static layout that is provided at init.
* `StandardKeyboardLayoutProvider` is used by default in the context, but you can change this at anytime.

There are new properties in the `KeyboardContext`.

This release also makes it easier to resolve system keyboard dimensions:

* `CGFloat+Keyboard` has utils to resolve the standard keyboard row height.
* `KeyboardStackViewComponent`s use this new standard height as default height.
* `UIEdgeInsets+Keyboard` has utils to resolve the standard keyboard row item insets.
* `KeyboardButtonRowComponent`s use these new standard insets as default insets.

The demos have been updated with these changes.

### Bug fixes:

* The context controller propertis are marked as `@unowned` to fix a memory leak. 

### Deprecations:

* `CGFloat+KeyboardDimensions` is deprecated and will be removed in 4.0.
* `KeyboardContext`'s `controller` is now deprecated and will be removed in 4.0 .Usage is strongly discouraged. Use the context instead. 

### Breaking:

* `KeyboardContext` has new properties to make the new input and layout additions possible. If you have created your own context, you will have to add these.



## 3.1.1

This version contains new features:

* `EmojiCategory` is now `Codable`.
* `EmojiCategory` has a `fallbackDisplayEmoji` that is used as system button text if no custom button image used.
* `KeyboardAction` now has a standard tap action for `.emojiCategory`.
* `KeyboardContext` now has an `emojiCategory`  property.



## 3.1

This version contains new protocols and classes:

* `KeyboardInputViewController` has new, empty `performAutocomplete` and `resetAutocomplete` functions that are called by the system at proper times.
* The new `AutocompleteSuggestions` typealias makes the autocomplete apis cleaner.
* There is a new `AutocompleteContext` protocol that can be used to manage suggestions. 
* There is a new `StandardAutocompleteContext` implementation of `AutocompleteContext`.
* There is a new `UITextDocumentProxy` property to check if the proxy cursor is at the end of the current word.

### Bug fixes:

* The "end sentence" action that is used by space double taps, uses the new proxy property to only close when the cursor is at the end of a word.



## 3.0.2

In this version:

* A memory leak was fixed by making all `StandardBookActionHandler` actions use `[weak self]`.
* The UIKit button shadow logic was improved by @jackhumbert.



## 3.0.1

This version fixes a bug, where the globe button that is used by the demo keyboards didn't do anything.

This version also fixes the system image's font weight.



## 3.0

This version removes all previously deprecated parts of the library and adds improved support for SwiftUI and iOS 13.

If you upgrade from an older version to `3.0` and have many breaking changes, upgrading to `2.9` first provides deprecation help that may make the transition easier.


### New functionality

There is a new `KeyboardContext`, which provides important contextual information.
* `StandardKeyboardContext` is the standard, non-observable implementation.
* `ObservableKeyboardContext` is an iOS 13+ required, observable implementation.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now automatically handles keyboard type switching and only delays if an action has a double-tap action.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now automatically switches to certain keyboards after certain actions, as defined by `handleKeyboardSwitch(after:on:)` and `preferredKeyboardType(after:on:)`.

There are new `KeyboardAction` types and properties:
* `.control` represents the system.
* `.systemImage` can be used with SF Symbols.
* `.systemFont` and `.systemTextStyle` provide system look information.

There is a new `System` namespace with utils to help you build native-imitating system keyboards.

There is a new `KeyboardInputSet` concept that will simplify building language-specific keyboards. For now, it contains English characters, numerics and symbols. 

The demo project contains a new `KeyboardKitSwiftUIPreviews` in which you can preview KeyboardKitSwiftUI views. 


### SwiftUI

* This repository has a new SwiftUI-based demo app, which is still in development.
* `KeyboardImageButton` supports the new `systemImage` action.


### Non-breaking changes:

* `KeyboardInputViewController` `deviceOrientation` has been converted to a general `UIInputViewController` extension.
* `setupNextKeyboardButton` has been converted to a general `UIInputViewController` extension.


### Breaking changes:

* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardContext` property.
* `StandardKeyboardContext` is used by default, whenever a keyboard extension is created.
* `ObservableKeyboardContext` is used by whenever a keyboard switches over to use SwiftUI.

* `KeyboardInputViewController` `keyboardActionHandler` has been moved to `KeyboardContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `canChangeKeyboardType` has been moved to `KeyboardType`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `changeKeyboardType` has been moved to `KeyboardContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `changeKeyboardTypeDelay` is now an argument in `changeKeyboardType`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `keyboardType` has been moved to the context.

* `AutocompleteToolbar` has been renamed to `AutocompleteToolbarView`.
* `EmojiCategory.frequents` has been renamed to `frequent`.
* `KeyboardActionHandler` now requires `canHandle(_:on:)` to be implemented.
* `KeyboardAction` has new action types.
* `KeyboardAction` has fewer `isXXX` properties.
* `KeyboardAction` `.capsLock` and `shiftDown` are now part of `KeyboardAction.shift`.
* `KeyboardActionRow.from` has been changed to an initializer.
* `KeyboardActionRows.from` has been changed to an initializer.
* `KeyboardImageActions` has been converted to a `KeyboardActionRow+Images` extension initializer.
* `KeyboardToolbar` has been renamed to `KeyboardToolbarView`. 
* The `shouldChangeToAlphabeticLowercase` has been replaced with the automatic switching mentioned above.
* The `isKeyboardEnabled` function now uses a `for` as external argument name.


### Removed, previously deprecated parts:

* `AutocompleteBugFixTimer`
* `AutocompleteSuggestionProvider` `provideAutocompleteSuggestions`
* `KeyboardAction` `switchKeyboard`
* `KeyboardAction` `switchToKeyboard`
* `KeyboardAction` `standardInputViewControllerAction`
* `KeyboardAction` `standardTextDocumentProxyAction`
* `KeyboardActionHandler` `handleTap/Repeat/LongPress`
* `KeyboardActionHandler` `handle` gesture on `UIView`
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `addSwitchKeyboardGesture`
* `PersistedKeyboardSetting` init with key
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `init` with feedback instances
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `action` for view
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `animationButtonTap`
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `giveHapticFeedbackForLongPress/Repeat/Tap`
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `longPress/repeat/tapAction` for view
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `handleLongPress/Repeat/Tap`
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `triggerAudio/HapticFeedback`
* `UIColor` `clearTappable`
* `UIInputViewController` `createAutocompleteBugFixTimer`
* `UIView` `add/removeLongPress/Repeating/TapAction`
* `isKeyboardEnabled` global function
