# Release notes

KeyboardKit tries to honor semantic versioning:

* Only remove deprecated code in `major` versions.
* Only deprecate code in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Avoid breaking changes in `minor` and `patch` versions.
* Code can be marked as deprecated at any time.

Breaking changes can still occur in minor versions and patches, though, if the alternative is to not be able to release new critical features or fixes.



## 4.9.3

### âœ¨ New features

* `PreviewKeyboardAppearance` has been made public.



## 4.9.2

This version renames images to avoid preview problems in apps that define the same image names.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* A bunch of images have been renamed with a `keyboard` name prefix.



## 4.9.1

This version fixes the iOS 15 autorotate bug and adds a property that can suppress the `needsInputModeSwitchKey` warning.

### âœ¨ New features

* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `viewWillSetupKeyboard` function that can be overridden to setup the keyboard at the proper time. It's just a convenience function. You can still setup the keyboard whenever you want.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new, static `needsInputModeSwitchKeyOverride` that can be set to make all input controllers ignore the real value. This can be useful when you want to create a keyboard preview and don't want all the warnings.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `needsInputModeSwitchKeyOverride` that can be set to make an input controllers ignore the real value. It will default to the static property value.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `KeyboardInputViewController` `setup(with:)` stack view variant is deprecated and will be removed in 5.0.



## 4.9.0

This version adds styles, which makes it a lot easier to style system keyboards.

It also exposes more system keyboard views and styles publicly.

Starting with this version, the library will start deprecating stuff that willbe changed in KK 5. The aim is to release several patches to prepare the library for the changes to come through deprecations instead of breaking changes.

### âœ¨ New features

* `KeyboardAppearance` has a new `systemKeyboardButtonStyle` function.
* `NextKeyboardButton` has an iOS 14 exclusive `Color`-based initializer that is now used by `SystemKeyboardButtonContent`
* `SystemKeyboardButtonBody` is a new view that represents the body of a system keyboard button.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonShadow` is a new view that represents the shadow of a system keyboard button.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonStyle` is a new style that can be used to define a system keyboard button style. 
* `SystemKeyboardButtonBorderStyle` is a new style that can be used to define a system keyboard button border.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonShadowStyle` is a new style that can be used to define a system keyboard button shadow.
* `TextInputProxy` now implements `UITextInputTraits` as well.
* `View+systemKeyboardButtonStyle` view extension now taes a style instead of an apperance, action and isPressed bool.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* Thanks to [@ardavank](https://github.com/ardavank), the `EmojisCategoryKeyboardMenu` now uses fixed fonts.
* `SystemKeyboardButtonContent` now applies the appearance text color to the "next keyboard" button (on iOS 14+).

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `AutocompleteSuggestionProvider` has been renamed to `AutocompleteProvider`.
* `KeyboardAppearance` has deprecated all functions that now can be fetched from the new `systemKeyboardButtonStyle` style.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `autocompleteSuggestionProvider` has been renamed to `autocompleteProvider`.
* `View+keyboardButtonStyle` has been replaced with `View+systemKeyboardButtonStyle`.

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* More system keyboard views require an explicit appearance to be injected.
* The `AutocompleteSuggestionProvider` `autocompleteSuggestions` is now escaping.



## 4.8.0

This versions adds new colors, such as the new standard keyboard background colors, which you can use to mimic keyboard backgrounds.

There are other new colors as well, that are used to work around the iOS color scheme bug, described [here](https://github.com/KeyboardKit/KeyboardKit/issues/305) and in the docs.

This makes it possible for us to finally workaround the dark mode color bug, and let the system keyboard look as the system keyboard in both dark mode and dark appearance keyboards.  

Finally, the dark appearance colors have been renamed and their old names deprecated.

### âœ¨ New features

* `KeyboardLocale` is now `Codable`.
* `KeyboardColor` has new colors.
* `Color+Keyboard` has new colors.
* `.standardButtonBackgroundForColorSchemeBug` is a new color scheme bug color.
* `.standardDarkButtonBackgroundForColorSchemeBug` is a new color scheme bug color.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* The standard keyboard apperance now uses the new color scheme bug colors, which should make the keyboards look more like the standard ones in dark mode and for dark appearance keyboards.
* `CalloutStyle.standard` now uses the look of `systemStyle`, since that IS the standard. The system styles have been deprecated.
* `SystemKeyboard` uses the new standard callout styles.  


### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* `InputCallout` now applies the provided style's callout text color.
* `SecondaryInputCallout` now uses the provided style's callout text color.
* `View+Button` now applies shadows in a way that doesn't affect the button content.
* `SystemKeyboard` now looks closer to the iOS system keyboards, in both dark mode and dark appearance.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* Color extensions for the button background colors are now suffixed with `Background`.
* Color extensions for the button tints colors are now suffixed with `Foreground` instead of `Tint`.
* Color extensions with the name `standardDarkAppearance*` have been renamed to `standard*ForDarkAppearance`.
* `CalloutStyle.systemStyle`, `InputCalloutStyle.systemStyle` and `SecondaryInputCalloutStyle.systemStyle` are deprecated. 

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `KeyboardColor`'s dark appearance cases have been renamed to keep things tight.
* `SecondaryInputCalloutStyle`'s text color property has been removed. Use the callout style's text color instead.  



## 4.7.2

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* Thanks to @AntoineBache, `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` no longer resize if their text content gets to wide. 



## 4.7.1

### âœ¨ New features

* `Color.darkAppearanceStrategy` is a new, temporary property that lets you inject a custom strategy that controls whether or not to apply a dark appearance color scheme to your keyboard. This lets you work around the current color scheme bug that is described in `Color+Button.swift` and override the standard strategy of always applying dark apperance colors when the keyboard context's `colorScheme` is `.dark`.

If you find a way to determine this correctly and to work around the system behavior, please share your findings.



## 4.7

This version makes KeyboardKit compile for Xcode 13.0 beta 3.

From now, all new versions of KeyboardKit will support the latest Xcode version. 

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `CGFloat+Keyboard` and `EdgeInsets+Keyboard` now uses the shared vc instead of the shared application. 



## 4.6.4

### âœ¨ New features

* `SystemKeyboardButton` has a new `contentConfig` init param that allows you to modify the button content before wrapping it in a style and applying gestures.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `KeyboardAction.primary` no longer applies autocomplete by default, which solves e.g. autocomplete suggestions being applied in the Safari address bar. 



## 4.6.3

### âœ¨ New features

* `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` now accepts a text binding, so that you can access the typed text.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` now share functionality through a new protocol.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* Thanks to @junyng, deleting backwards now works even when `documentContextBeforeInput` is nil.

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` now requires a text binding. 



## 4.6.2

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

This version adjusts the colors that are used for dark keyboard appearance and dark mode keyboards, to make keyboards look better in dark appearance when in light mode. 

The problem is discussed [here](https://github.com/KeyboardKit/KeyboardKit/issues/285).

This fix makes the button a little brighter in dark mode, but that's a lot better than having them be a little darker in dark appearance light mode.



## 4.6.1

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

This version fixes a bug that caused the keyboard type to not change when typing into a `TextInputProxy` text field.   



## 4.6

This version adds features that makes it possible to add text fields and text views to the keyboard extension and automatically redirect keyboard events there instead of using the hosting app.

You can either set `KeyboardInputViewController.shared.textInputProxy` directly, or use the new `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` views that does this automatically.

### âœ¨ New features

* There is a new `Proxy` namespace to which the `UITextDocumentProxy` extensions have been moved.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `textInputProxy` that can be set to redirect the keyboard to that proxy instead of the original `textDocumentProxy`.
* `KeyboardTextField` and `KeyboardTextView` are two new views that can be used in keyboard extensions and that will automatically redirect keyboard events to them when they become first responder.
* `TextInputProxy` is a new class that can be used to redirect the keyboard events to any text input.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* This version fixes a gesture bug that caused the space tap action to be triggered even after long pressing and dragging the cursor around.   

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `KeyboardInputViewController` `viewWillSyncWithTextDocumentProxy` was not used internally and has been removed. If you override this in your own keyboards, just override `viewWillAppear` instead. 



## 4.5.6

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* `ibayramli2001` and `amirshane` have fixed a crash when deleting backwards without any content in the proxy.   



## 4.5.5

### âœ¨ New features

* `KeyboardCasing` has a new `auto` case.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `SystemKeyboardLayoutProvider` uses the new `auto` case for numeric and symbolic keyboard type switches.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* This version fixes a bug that caused numeric and symbolid keyboards to always switch back to lowercased alphabetic keyboards.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `BaseKeyboardLayoutProvider` has been renamed to `SystemKeyboardLayoutProvider`.
* `KeyboardCasing.neutral` is deprecated and will be removed. 



## 4.5.4

### âœ¨ New features

* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `canHandle` is now `open` instead of `public`.



## 4.5.3

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `KeyboardGestures` now use the drag gesture to trigger tap actions instead of a tap gesture. This increases responsiveness and ensures that taps aren't cancelled when you press for too long.
* `KeyboardGestures` now only applies a double tap gesture if a double tap action is provided. 
* The changes above helps reducing the number of active gestures and reduces the overall gesture complexity.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* This version fixes compile errors in Xcode 12.4.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `Image.settings` has been renamed to `keyboardSettings`.
* `Image.moveCursorLeft/Right` have been renamed to `keyboardLeft/Right`.



## 4.5.2

This version fixes a bug that caused the keyboard layout to not update.



## 4.5.1

This version fixes a bug that caused the secondary actions to not update.



## 4.5

This version adds new locales, external keyboard detection, dynamic type disabling and RTL locale support.

### ðŸŒ New locales

* ðŸ‡«ðŸ‡· French
* ðŸ‡ªðŸ‡¸ Spanish

### âœ¨ New features

* `ExternalKeyboardContext` is a new iOS 14 exclusive class that lets you observe whether or not  an external keyboard is connected to the device.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `standardButtonFontSize` function.
* `KeyboardType` has a new, context-based `standardButtonImage` function that replaces the old property.
* `KeyboardLocale` has new `isLeftToRight` and `isRightToLeft` properties.
* `KeyboardType` has a new `standardButtonFontSize` function.
* `KeyboardType` has a new, context-based `standardButtonText` function that replaces the old property.
* `Locale` has new `characterDirection` and `lineDirection` properties.
* `Locale` has new `isLeftToRight`, `isRightToLeft`, `isBottomToTop`, `isTopToBottom` properties.
* Thanks to [@habaieba](https://github.com/habaieba), KeyboardKit now has French localization.
* There are new localizations for the keyboard type key texts. 

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `KeyboardAction` now flips the standard keyboard button image for RTL locales.
* `SystemKeyboard` will now ignore dynamic type, just like the native keyboards.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* The German localized newline symbol for Return is now correctly rendered as an image. 

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonFont` has been renamed to `standardButtonUIFont`.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonFontWeight` has been renamed to `standardButtonUIFontWeight`.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonImage` has been converted to a context-based function.
* `KeyboardType` `standardButtonText` has been converted to a context-based function.
* `UIApplication` `standardButtonTextStyle` has been renamed to `standardButtonUITextStyle`.

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `KeyboardAction+standardButtonFont` now returns a `Font` instead of a `UIFont`.
* `KeyboardAction+standardButtonFontWeight` now returns a `Font.Weight` instead of a `UIFont.Weight`.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonImage` - the property is deprecated in favor for the context-based function.
* The old properties are now called `standardButtonUIFont` and `standardButtonUIFontWeight`. 



## 4.4

This version adds new locales as well as features that make it easier to work with layouts and collections.

In this version, you can also identify the active app ID, which makes it possible to adjust the keyboard accordingly.

There are also several tweaks and behavior changes that make system keyboards behave even more native-like.

### ðŸŒ New locales

* ðŸ‡¬ðŸ‡§ English U.K. (GB)
* ðŸ‡ºðŸ‡¸ English U.S. (same keyboard as base English but different region)

### âœ¨ New features

* `CGFloat` has a new `standardKeyboardButtonCornerRadius` property.
* `DeleteBackwardRange` is a new enum can be used when deleting backwards.
* `EnglishKeyboardInputSetProvider` has new currency init params.
* `KeyboardAction.PrimaryType` has new `newLine` case, that can be used to force an arrow for primary buttons.
* `KeyboardBehavior` has a new `backspaceRange` property.
* `KeyboardColor` is a new enum that exposes the raw color resources.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new `activeAppBundleId` property that identifies the currently active app.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new `screenOrientation` property that replaces `deviceOrientation`.
* `KeyboardPreviewMode` is a new (hopefully temporary) class that has a static `enable()` function that makes SwiftUI previews work.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `activeAppBundleId` property that identifies the currently active app.
* `RepeatGestureTimer` has been made public and can be used to inspect how long a repeat gesture has been active.
* `RowItem` is a new protocol that makes it possible to gather row collection functions in one place - `Collection+RowItem`.

* `Collection+RowItem` has new extensions that make it easier to add and remove row items to all collections that contain the new `RowItem` protocol.
* `EdgeInsets+Keyboard` has new context-based extensions.
* `UIInputViewController+Orientation` renames `deviceOrientation` to `screenOrientation`.
* `UITextDocumentProxy+Delete` has a new extension for deleting backwards a certain range.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* `KeyboardAction` now implements `RowItem`.
* `iPadKeyboardLayoutProvider` has been adjusted layout buttons closer to native layouts.
* `iPhoneKeyboardLayoutProvider` has been adjusted layout buttons closer to native layouts.
* `KeyboardInput` now implements `RowItem`.
* `KeyboardLayoutItem` now implements `RowItem`.
* `StandardKeyboardBehavior` now only auto-switches keyboard type on `.tap`.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` handles new lines when checking if the cursor is at new sentence.

* Standard font sizes are adjusted to fit the native keyboards better.
* The standard backspace range is now progressive and will increase after backspace has been pressed for a while.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `KeyboardContext` `deviceOrientation` has been renamed to `screenOrientation`.
* `UIApplication` `preferredKeyboardInterfaceOrientation` didn't work and will be removed.
* `UIDeviceOrientation` `interfaceOrientation` is no longer used and will be removed.
* `UIInputViewController` `deviceOrientation` has been renamed to `screenOrientation`.
* `UIInterfaceOrientation` - the device orientation-based init is no longer used and will be removed.

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `KeyboardBehavior` has a new `backspaceRange` property that must be implemented. 

Besides the points above, `KeyboardActionHandler` had a convenience `handle` function that didn't require a `sender`.  This caused a conflict with the `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` function with the same signature.  Subclassing `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` and calling `super.handle` thus caused a never-ending loop, since the convenience function called the sender function etc. 

The sender-based functions have thus been removed. If you have a custom action handler that overrides `handle` or `canHandle`, you must remove the `sender` parameter.



## 4.3.1

This version tweaks `KeyboardGestures`  to avoid delays.



## 4.3

This version introduces a bunch of changes to how feedback is being handled.

### âœ¨ New features

* `AudioFeedbackConfiguration` has default init param values.
* `DragGestureHandler` is a new protocol for handling drag gestures.
* `HapticFeedbackPlayer` is a new protocol for preparing and playing haptic feedback.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `standardAction(for:gesture)` function.
* `KeyboardFeedbackHandler` is a new protocol for handling keyboard feedback.
* `KeyboardFeedbackSettings` is a new, observable settings object.
* `KeyboardGesture` is now `CaseIterable`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `setup(with:)` that takes a `UIStackView`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardFeedbackHandler` property.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardFeedbackSettings` property.
* `StandardHapticFeedbackPlayer` is a standard implementation that is used by default.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has new, cleaner initializers.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `triggerFeedback` function.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `spaceDragGestureHandler` that is used to handle space drag gestures.
* `StandardKeyboardFeedbackHandler` is a new, standard feedback handler.
* There are new mocks for the new classes.

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* More feedback types are now `Equatable`.
* Action feedback (e.g. tap sound) is now given on `press` instead of `tap`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` uses the new feedback handler to trigger feedback.

### ðŸšš Structure changes

* Audio feedback types have been moved to `Feedback`.
* Haptic feedback types have been moved to `Feedback`.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `AudioFeedback` `systemPlayer` has been renamed to `player`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `keyboardStackView` has been replaced with a new `setup(with:)`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has deprecated the two audio/haptic configuration-based initializers.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `audioConfiguration` is deprecated and converted to a computed property. 
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `hapticConfiguration` is deprecated and converted to a computed property.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `spaceDragSensitivity` is deprecated.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `handleSpaceCursorDragGesture` is deprecated.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `triggerAudioFeedback` is deprecated.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `triggerHapticFeedback` is deprecated.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `triggerHapticFeedbackForLongPressOnSpaceDragGesture` is deprecated.



## 4.2

This version adds support for primary actions, such as `.done`, `.go`, `.search` etc.

### âœ¨ New features

* `BaseKeyboardLayoutProvider` has a new, open `keyboardReturnAction(for:)` function.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `standardTextDocumentProxyAction`.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `standardTextDocumentProxyInputAction`.
* `KeyboardAction.primary` is a new action type that gathers all primary action types.
* `KKL10n` has new `text(for:)` functions that let you translate keys for specific contexts and locales. 
* `String+sentenceDelimiters` and `wordDelimiters` can now be modified, if you have specific needs. 
* The iPhone and iPad layout providers now replaces `return` with `done`, `go` and `search` when applicable.

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* English (US) secondary actions now include actions for `$`. 

### ðŸ’¡ Behavior changes

* New line is now considered to be a `word` delimiter instead of a `sentence` delimiter.
* Due to the new ways to localize content, some signatures must be changed to optional strings.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `KeyboardAction` `.done`, `.go`, `.ok` and `.search`  have been deprecated and replaced with the new `primary` umbrella type.



## 4.1

[Milestone](https://github.com/KeyboardKit/KeyboardKit/milestone/30).

This version is all about locales and autocomplete, overall: 

This version adds support for `danish`, `finnish`, `norwegian` and `dutch`.

This version also adds many new features aimed at an improved autocomplete experience.

KeyboardKit Pro 4.1 also adds more locale-specific providers as well as a real autocomplete engine.

### ðŸŒ New locales

* ðŸ‡©ðŸ‡° Danish
* ðŸ‡³ðŸ‡± Dutch
* ðŸ‡«ðŸ‡® Finnish
* ðŸ‡³ðŸ‡´ Norwegian

### âœ¨ New features

* `AutocompleteSpaceState` is a new enum that is used to keep track of how a 
* `AutocompleteSuggestion` has new `isAutocomplete` and `isUnknown` properties.
* `AutocompleteSuggestionProvider` has new functions for ignoring and learning words.
* `AutocompleteToolbar` has a new `itemBuilder` initializer.
* `AutocompleteToolbarItem` is a new view that replicates a native autocomplete item.
* `AutocompleteToolbarItemText` is a new view that replicates the text of a native autocomplete item.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `isSpace` property.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `shouldApplyAutocompleteSuggestion` property.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `shouldReinsertAutocompleteInsertedSpace` property.
* `KeyboardAction` has a new `shouldRemoveAutocompleteInsertedSpace` property.
* `KeyboardLocale` now implementes `Identifiable`.
* `KeyboardLocale` has new `flag`, `id` and `localeIdentifier` properties.
* `KeyboardLocale` has new `sorted` collection extensions.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `autocompleteSuggestionProvider` property.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has now implemented `performAutocomplete` and `resetAutocomplete`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `tryApplyAutocompleteSuggestion` function.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `tryHandleReplacementAction` function.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `tryReinsertAutocompleteRemovedSpace` function.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new `tryRemoveAutocompleteInsertedSpace` function.
* `SystemKeyboardSpaceButtonContent` has a new initializer that lets you inject a custom space view.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `hasAutocompleteInsertedSpace` property.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `hasAutocompleteRemovedSpace` property.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `insertAutocompleteSuggestion` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `isOpenAlternateQuotationBeforeInput(for:)` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `isOpenQuotationBeforeInput(for:)` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `preferredReplacement(for:locale:)` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `tryInsertSpaceAfterAutocomplete)` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `tryReinsertAutocompleteRemovedSpace` function.
* `UITextDocumentProxy` has a new `tryRemoveAutocompleteInsertedSpace` function.

### ðŸ’¡ Changed behavior

* `KeyboardInputViewController` now uses combine observations to keep locale in sync.

### ðŸšš Renamed

* `AutocompleteSuggestion+replacement` has been renamed to `text`.
* `AutocompleteToolbar+ButtonBuilder` has been renamed to `ItemBuilder`.
* `KeyboardLocale+key` has been renamed to `id`.
* `LocaleKey` has been renamed to `KeyboardLocale`.

### ðŸ—‘ Deprecations

* `AutocompleteSuggestion+replacement` has been deprecated due to the name change above.
* `AutocompleteToolbar+buttonBuilder` init has been deprecated and replaced with the `itemBuilder` one.
* `AutocompleteToolbar+standardReplacement` has been deprecated.
* `LocaleKey` has been deprecated due to the name change above.
* `KeyboardLocale+key` has been deprecated.
* `KeyboardInputViewController+changeKeyboardLocale` has been deprecated.
* `KeyboardInputViewController+changeKeyboardType` has been deprecated.

### ðŸ’¥ Breaking changes

* `AutocompleteSuggestionProvider` has new properties and functions that must be implemented. If you have an instance that breaks, just create dummy implementations that does nothing.



## 4.0.3

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

This patch fixes a bug with the numeric/symbolic auto-switch back to alphabetic, that could cause a keyboard to get stuck in alpha.



## 4.0.2

This patch fixes a few minor things.

### ðŸŒ New locales

* ðŸ‡®ðŸ‡¹ Italian
* ðŸ‡©ðŸ‡ª German

### ðŸ› Bug fixes

* `.done` was accidentally missing a localized text.
* English, German and Italian keyboards used an invalid double quote key text.
* Title1 font is now used for input keys with two characters, e.g. Swedish "kr" currency.
* Numeric and symbolic keyboards didn't auto-switch to alphabetic when tapping space.



## 4.0.1

This patch fixes a few minor things:

### âœ¨ New features

* `LocaleKey` now implements `CaseIterable`.

### ðŸš‘ Critical fixes

* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` had a memory leak that has been fixed.



## 4.0

[Milestone](https://github.com/danielsaidi/KeyboardKit/milestone/16?closed=1).

SwiftUI: Rising. In the shadows no more! 

It's time for `SwiftUI` to rise and become the unrelenting force we always knew it would become. 

`KeyboardKitSwiftUI` has been merged into this repository and the deployment target is raised to `iOS 13`. 

SwiftUI support is a first-class citizen from now on. `UIKit` support is still around, but will no longer be actively developed. The future is a bright, declarative one!

Although these release notes aim at covering everything that has changes in this major version, some things will most probably be missed.

### âœ¨ New features

Besides the new things listed below, there are a bunch of new extensions, images etc. 

* `Callouts` has new types and providers for working with callouts.
* `Image.emoji` no longer requires iOS 14, but uses `person.crop.circle` as fallback on iOS 13.
* `Input` has new types and providers for working with keyboard layouts.
* `KeyboardAction` has new actions - `go`, `nextLocale`, `ok` and `return`.
* `KeyboardAction` has new, localized standard button texts for some actions.
* `KeyboardAction` has new `isPrimaryAction` property.
* `KeyboardAction` has new `standardButtonFontWeight` property.
* `KeyboardAppearance` has a new `image(for:)`.
* `KeyboardCasing` has a new `neutral` case that can be used to show the original state of the inputs.
* `KeyboardContext` has a new  `locales` list and a new `selectNextLocale` function.
* `KeyboardGesture` has new `press` and `release` gestures.
* `KeyboardInput` is a new input type that simplifies building unicode-based keyboards.
* `KeyboardInputSet` is now based on `KeyboardInput`s instead of strings.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new static `shared` instance.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardActionHandler`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardAppearance`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardBehavior`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardInputCalloutContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardInputSetProvider`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardLayoutProvider`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardSecondaryInputActionProvider`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` has a new `keyboardSecondaryInputCalloutContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `setup(with:)` is now open and overridable.
* `KeyboardEnabledState` is a new observable class that keeps in sync with the keyboard enabled state.
* `KeyboardLayoutProvider` has a new `register(inputSetProvider:)` to simplify changing global input set provider.
* `Layout` has new types and providers for working with keyboard layouts.
* `Locale` is a new namespace with a few new locale-specific utils.
* `LocaleDictionary` is a simple dictionary wrapper to work with localized resources.
* `LocaleKey` is a simple enum to gather top-level locale identifiers.
* `KKL10n` is a new enum that provides localized strings from KeyboardKit.
* `SystemKeyboard` now highlights buttons when typing on iPad.
* `View` has new `keyboardInputViewController` convenience extensions.
* `View+keyboardToast` has new context-based function.
* `View+localeContextMenu` can be applied to any view to let the user change locale.
* There are new preview-specific implementations that can help you preview keyboard-based views.

### ðŸ’¡ Changed behavior

* `AutocompleteContext` is now an observable object and not a protocol.
* `AutocompleteToolbar` is now generic, which makes your .
* `AutocompleteToolbar` now uses identifiable bar items, which leads to better separator handling.
* `AutocompleteToolbar` now takes suggestions at init and doesn't require an environment injected `AutocompleteContext`. 
* `AutocompleteToolbar` no longer requires an environment injected `ObservableKeyboardContext`, nor does its builder functions.
* `EmojiCategory` now uses the `Emoji` type instead of a char.
* `FrequentEmojiProvider` now uses the `Emoji` type instead of a char.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonFont` has been coverted to a function.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonText` has been coverted to a function.
* `KeyboardAction` `standardButtonTextStyle` has been coverted to a function.
* `KeyboardAction.emoji` now uses the `Emoji` type instead of a char.
* `KeyboardAction.emojiCategory` no longer has a  standard tap action.
* `KeyboardActionRow` `standardButtonImage` no longer takes a context.
* `KeyboardBehavior` no longer takes a context as function input.
* `KeyboardContext` is now an observable object and not a protocol.
* `KeyboardContext` no longer has any services, just inspectable properties.
* `KeyboardGestures` now handles the new press and release gestures.
* `KeyboardInputSetProvider` implementations now provides punctuation as well.
* `KeyboardInputSetProvider` no longer takes a context as function input.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `context` is now an `ObservableKeyboardContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `context` is now called `keyboardContext`.
* `SecondaryCalloutActionProvider` no longer takes a context as function input.
* `SecondaryInputCalloutContext` no longer requires a context init parameter.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` no longer depends on an input view controller.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now requires an injected keyboard context and behavior.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now requires an injected autocomplete and keyboard change action.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` now handles the new press and release gestures.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` `triggerAutocomplete` is replaced by an injectable function.
* `StandardKeyboardAppearance` will use `isPrimaryAction` to apply a blue color to those actions.
* `StandardKeyboardAppearance` will fallback to the action's standard font weight instead of `nil`.
* `StandardKeyboardBehavior` now requires an injected keyboard context.
* `StandardKeyboardInputSetProvider` now requires an injected keyboard context.
* `View+KeyboardGestures` now handles the new press and release gestures.

### ðŸšš Removed/renamed

* All unused extensions have been removed.
* All previous deprecations have been removed.
* All internal-only used extensions have been made internal.
* `InputCalloutContext.shared` has been removed. Use the environment object instead.
* `KeyboardAction+SecondaryCalloutActions` has been replaced with new `Callouts/Providers` providers.
* `KeyboardActionRow` has been removed, since it's confusing to have two aliases for the same thing.
* `KeyboardAppearance` button properties are prefixed with `button`.
* `KeyboardAppearance` `font` and `fontWeight` have been merged into a single `font` property.
* `KeyboardAppearanceProvider` has been renamed to `KeyboardAppearance`.
* `KeyboardButtonWidth` has been renamed to `KeyboardLayoutWidth`.
* `KeyboardContext` `actionHandler` has been moved to the input vc.
* `KeyboardContext` `keyboardAppearanceProvider` has been moved to the input vc.
* `KeyboardContext` `keyboardBehavior` has been moved to the input vc.
* `KeyboardContext` `keyboardInputSetProvider` has been moved to the input vc.
* `KeyboardContext` `keyboardLayoutProvider` has been moved to the input vc.
* `KeyboardDimensions` is no longer used and has been removed.
* `KeyboardInputSet` locale extensions have been removed.
* `KeyboardInputSet` standard input set extensions have been removed.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `addKeyboardGestures` has been converted to `KeyboardButton+Gestures`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `context` has been renamed to `keyboardContext`.
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `keyboardType` has been removed - use the context directly!
* `KeyboardInputViewController` `setupKeyboard` has been removed and moved to the UIKit demo.
* `KeyboardInputViewController+Gestures` has been converted to `KeyboardButton+Gestures`.
* `KeyboardLayout` `actionRows` has been renamed to `items` and are of a new `KeyboardLayoutItemRows` type.
* `KeyboardCasing` has been renamed to `KeyboardCasing`
* `KeyboardStateInspector` has been renamed to `KeyboardEnabledStateInspector`.
* `ObservableAutocompleteContext` has been renamed to `AutocompleteContext`.
* `ObservableKeyboardContext` has been renamed to `KeyboardContext`. 
* `PhotosImageService` and `StandardPhotosImageService` have been removed.
* `Settings` has been entirely removed.
* `SecondaryInputCalloutContext.shared` has been removed. Use the environment object instead.
* `StandardKeyboardContext` has been replaced by `ObservableKeyboardContext`.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` has a new vc-based initializer.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` no longer takes an optional sender for keyboard actions.
* `StandardKeyboardActionHandler` gesture actions has been gathered in a single `action(for:on)`.
* `StandardKeyboardAppearanceProvider` has been renamed to `StandardKeyboardAppearance`.
* `StandardKeyboardLayoutProvider` no longer has left and right space actions. Implement this in a custom provider instead.
* `SystemKeyboardDimensions` is no longer used and has been removed.
* `UIImage+pasteboard` has been moved to the demo.
* `UIImage+photos` has been moved to the demo.
* `UIImage+resized` has been removed.
* `UIImage+tinted` has been removed.
* `UIInputViewController+NextKeyboard` has been made an internal extension in `UIView+Keyboard`.
* `View+Button` "standard button" functions have been replaced by a single `keyboardButtonStyle` function.
* `View+ClearInteractable` has been removed.
* `View` `keyboardAction(...)` has been renamed to `keyboardGestures(for: ...)`.
* `UIEdgeInsets+Keyboard` `standardKeyboardButtonInsets` has been renamed to `standardKeyboardButtonInsets`.

### ðŸ’¥ UIKit changes

In this version, `UIKit` is replaced by `SwiftUI` as the primary layout engine.

As such, to avoid `UIKit` parts blocking SwiftUI, types in the `UIKit` folder will be renamed to start with `UI`:

* `AutocompleteToolbarLabel` -> `UIAutocompleteToolbarLabel`
* `AutocompleteToolbarSeparator` -> `UIAutocompleteToolbarSeparator`
* `AutocompleteToolbarView` -> `UIAutocompleteToolbar` (OBS! Name change as well.)
* `HorizontalKeyboardComponent` -> `UIHorizontalKeyboardComponent`
* `KeyboardAlert` -> `UIKeyboardAlert`
* `KeyboardButton` -> `UIKeyboardButton`
* `KeyboardButtonCollectionView` -> `UIKeyboardButtonCollectionView`
* `KeyboardButtonRowCollectionView` -> `UIKeyboardButtonRowCollectionView`
* `KeyboardButtonView` -> `UIKeyboardButtonView`
* `KeyboardButtonRowComponent` -> `UIKeyboardButtonRowComponent`
* `KeyboardCollectionView` -> `UIKeyboardCollectionView`
* `KeyboardToolbarComponent` -> `UIKeyboardToolbarComponent`
* `KeyboardToolbarView` -> `UIKeyboardToolbarView`
* `KeyboardSpacerView` -> `UIKeyboardSpacerView`
* `KeyboardStackViewComponent` -> `UIKeyboardStackViewComponent`
* `PagedKeyboardComponent` -> `UIPagedKeyboardComponent`
* `RepeatingGestureRecognizer` -> `UIRepeatingGestureRecognizer`
* `Shadow` -> `UIShadow`
* `ToastAlert` -> `UIKeyboardToastAlert` (OBS! Name change as well.)
* `VerticalKeyboardComponent` -> `UIVerticalKeyboardComponent`

Their functionality remains intact, however.

There are a new extension as well, as UIKit support moves away from the core layer:

* `UIView+Keyboard` is now used to apply button gestures to a view, instead of having this functionality in the view controller. 
